in this lesson we're going to look at
the benefits and usage of big data and
analytics services
for most companies i can think about
there's a huge amount of data and
there's a certain flow to that data
i can think about well there's some
source
likely
many sources of data
that produce data in different formats
some might produce some big export file
some might be producing data as a
constant stream
but i get all of these different flows
now what i need to do
is well i need to extract
that data
so there's some mechanism to connect to
that system
and
get out the data
now you may have heard the term etl
extract transform load which is all
about that of idea of source to sync hey
we get the data we do stuff
and then we put it somewhere to where we
can then perform analysis get insight
about the data
what you might commonly see today is
this idea of what we extract the data
it's in its raw source format
and in the old days we would transform
it straight away so yes we had the idea
that then we need to do transformation
to get it into a format that we can then
store that's suitable for doing that
analysis however we did that because
there was a limited amount of disk space
we wanted to get rid of the stuff we
didn't need to just get the data we need
to get the insight we require
that's not the same today today there's
huge amount of disk space
so often what we'll also see today is
this idea that well
i have a data lake
and in azure this is the azure data lake
storage gen 2 which sits on top of blob
and this can really handle any type of
unstructured data
and it's actually pretty cheap and it's
near infinite in scale
so what we may commonly see today
is there's this also idea of we'll
actually load it
we'll perform a store of that raw format
so we're keeping it in its raw format
and the benefit here is what we're going
to do is transform it
so we can actually go through and
transform that data
so i can come from there we can carry on
we'll remove bits we'll change the
formatting
but maybe i get rid of stuff that's
actually useful for some query that i
don't yet know i want to run
by keeping the data in its raw format in
that data lake
i can always come back to it at a later
time extract the data and transform it
in a different way so i could then get
different amounts of insight
so that's a common thing extract load
transform and then we'll load it
somewhere else
so what is transform so the idea of the
transform is well we had this raw data
that's likely not in the right format
and there may be junk in there
i can think about the idea that well
there's things in that data that's maybe
missing certain fields that's maybe got
duplicate data and i don't really want
that
so when i think about transform
we think about the actions we're going
to perform is cleaning
so i can think hey i want to clean up
the data
so that's about getting rid of those
records that are missing values
reformatting values so the data is in a
valid maybe it's a certain date format
about deduplicating the data
and then what i'll actually do is
wrangle the data
and that's about now transforming that
data and get it into a format that i can
use in the desired model
so we're going to transform it get it
into a new format and then absolutely
we'll then take that new structure and
load it into something we'll load it
into the sync
and that could be for example a sql
database
it could be a data warehouse it could be
cosmos db
something where i can now
fundamentally perform
my various analysis
that's going to give me the insight and
answer those business questions which is
the whole point
of having this set of data so if i think
about that entire thing
what's there's a certain orchestration
that has to happen for that
so if i think of azure services
well
there's this idea
of an orchestration
so something has to happen
to do that to connect to the system to
extract it to call something to do the
transform put it in a data lake load it
and so this is
azure data factory
so azure data factory is that idea of
this source to sync managing that
complete data flow
so that's data factory
in terms of the orchestration that's
what data factory does it has some basic
native transformation capabilities but
it's really about that end to end flow
of the data
well what about
these kind of rich transformation
services
so there's actually a number of
different services in azure around
performing this transformation
so the first key service you're going to
hear about
is hd
insight
now hd insight provides a number of
different open source analytics services
and with those they integrate very
easily to
a lot of these servers it's a managed
service for you so i'm not worried about
installing any of these particular open
source analytics services
but it's going to provide me that
framework so i can then enable these
kind of etl type solutions
now there's a broad range of hdinsight
services i'm not going to go into detail
about all of them
but i can think from a basic perspective
they're saying like hadoop
so hadoop is this disc based yarn
performance processing
it has the concept of map reduce you'll
hear this this is about dividing tasks
into smaller parts so i can distribute
the various processing i actually need
to perform it gives me this very large
scale processing capabilities
so the mapping is all about breaking it
down into these key value pairs of data
that can then be shuffled around and
redistributed to actually then run the
reducer
where the data is actually processed
based on some key so this is all disk
based so there's a certain performance
characteristic of disk based solutions
then there's things like
storm
so what storm is doing is real time
processing this is useful for real time
analytics integration with machine
learning continuous computation
you'll hear about spark now spark is a
big one
we're going to talk about another
technology in a second this is mostly
around batch jobs and data
transformation you have some data this
could be structured it could be
unstructured and i want to do something
with it
for example transforming that data so i
can schedule a job and then using many
different languages um scalar java
python r spark sql languages
i can then do these transformations but
whereas hadoop is disk based spark is
memory based so i'm going to get a
higher performance with this
then there's things like kafka
kafka is all about big data streaming so
when we think about hey these sources i
said there's different types maybe it's
a batch output of data
kafka is about the idea that maybe i
have remember we talked about iot i have
huge amounts of sensors maybe it's
connected cars factories whatever that
might be there's a constant stream of
data coming in
well kafka is all about ingesting into
my pipe
and then dealing with that huge quantity
of data so that's what catheter is
really all about
then there's things like hive
hive llp
so this is
llap
interactive query so i can query data
live from the store so
if the data's sitting in this data lake
for example instead of having to bring
it somewhere else i can actually query
it directly in the data lake and get
those results then there's things like
hbase
this no sequel kind of storage
so a huge range of different services
the whole point about this these are all
these open source
frameworks
but rather than me having to worry about
installing it and managing it and all
those different things hdinsight is
going to spin those up and make those
available to me
now the next
azure big solution when i think about
these various types of data manipulation
is actually data bricks
now
azure data bricks is an azure hosted
managed solution of the data bricks
solution and data bricks itself is built
off apache spark so if you think about
that spark that analytics service what
data bricks as a company did is they
built a solution built on top of apache
spark
and so azure data bricks is a managed
data brick solution available in azure
so i can easily deploy this using the
databricks control plane it's using vms
and blobs under the covers but i don't
see that it has a full native ux i can
use that
it has
a delta lake it's not a data lake but a
delta lake that sits on top of a regular
data lake but gives me things like
version parquet files so i can store
data and various transaction logs which
gives me the ability to do different
types of transactions and versioning and
auditing
and it can also integrate the data lake
so with data breaks once again because
of that apache spark foundation so i
think about hey it's building on top of
that we have that python scalar r java
sql various frameworks to integrate with
it
so when i'm thinking about all those
various solutions
hey we have these around that different
transformation
now the last service i want to talk
about is if we think well data factory
has this complete orchestration
and it lets us talk to various things
the other solution we're actually going
to see
is azure synapse
so azure
synapse
analytics
now this was previously kind of known as
the azure sql data warehouse
but with data warehouse we still had to
worry about okay there's different
services we have to integrate with we
have to have permissions here here and
here and how do i hook into the pools of
computation and there were lots of
challenges and work we might have six or
seven different products to actually
light up that complete end to end and so
with azure synapse analytics it actually
kind of builds on a lot of the data
factory for that flow capability i get
my own synapse workspace and through
that workspace
there's this kind of capabilities of
there's a certain amount of compute and
processing we get with synapse
but it can also have on demand so
there's really this infinite scale
analytics machine learning business
intelligence integration but i can
manage it all through this workspace
it has its own
data preparation capabilities built on
its own
apache manage spark
component
it has things like synapse links so you
can actually go in real time talk to
things like cosmos db
it integrates with a data lake
so it gives me this ability now with
azure synapse analytics if i want a just
complete analytic solution and don't
want to have to grab the different
pieces
with synapse it uses other components
but brings it all into this single
workspace to really give me this
infinite type scale capability